If Google and ChatGBT had a baby, it
would look a lot like this new search
engine. And once I optimized for it, it
started sending me highquality organic
traffic full of ready to buy customers.
I've been testing on my own sites and my
client sites and very few people are
actually optimizing for it yet. Which
means if you move early, the opportunity
is massive. It's called perplexity. It
searches the internet like Google in
real time, but answers like a human with
trusted sources. I'm Neil Patel,
co-founder of the award-winning
marketing agency NP Digital. And in this
video, I'll show you exactly how I'm
getting results from it with my fivestep
blueprint and how you can, too.
A 2-year-old startup just hit a $14
billion valuation, and Google and
Microsoft and Open AI are all scrambling
to copy what they built. Look, I want
you to think about this for a second. In
2022, just three years ago, a guy named
Aravven Trinivas started a company
called Perplexity AI. Fast forward to
today, and this thing is valued at $14
billion. Jeff Bezos invested it. Nvidia
threw money at it. And here's the crazy
part. Every single tech giant is now
racing to build the exact same thing.
Google launched AI overviews. Microsoft
pumped up C-pilot. Open AAI added search
to chat GPT. Meta is working on their
own version. Even Apple is reportedly
building something similar. But here's
what most people don't realize. This
validates an entire new category of
search. Perplexity proved that people
don't just want a list of links anymore.
They want direct answers with sources
they can trust. And when every platform
starts moving in the same direction, it
creates a massive opportunity for
marketers who understand what's
happening. Because once you learn how to
get cited by one AI platform, you can
apply the same principles across all of
them. So here's why this matters to you
right now. Instead of learning separate
strategies for Google, Chad GPT, Claude,
and Perplexity, you can master the
fundamentals that work across all AI
power search. You're not just optimizing
for one platform. You're getting ahead
of where the entire industry is moving.
There's a specific type of person who
uses Perplexity, and they're exactly who
you want as a customer. People using
Perplexity stick around way longer on
regular than Google style search. A
typical Google search visit is under 2
minutes, but on Perplexity, people spend
anywhere from 11 minutes to over 23
minutes in one session. They also click
through to about four to five pages each
time, and less than half leave right
away. That means people aren't just
glancing at the results, they're
exploring, reading, and engaging with
the answers they get. But here's what
those numbers really tell us. When
someone opens Perplexity, they're not in
browsing mode. They're in research mode.
They're trying to solve a specific
problem or make a specific decision.
These are the people who are further
along in their buyer journey. They're
not just learning about a problem. They
know they have a problem and they're
actively looking for solutions. So,
here's how this changes your content
strategy. Instead of creating content
for casual browsers, you need to create
content for decision makers who are
actively researching solutions. Don't
write 10 marketing tools you should know
about. Right? How to choose marketing
automation software when you're scaling
from 1 million to 10 million ARR. The
person reading that second article,
they're probably ready to buy something.
And that's exactly the type of traffic
Perplexity sends you.
Perplexity doesn't just answer
questions, it builds trust through
radical transparency. Here's something
fascinating that happened to me a few
months ago. A potential client reached
out and said, "I saw Perplexity cited
your content when I was researching
marketing strategies." If an AI trust
your expertise enough to reference you,
you must know what you're talking about.
That's when it hit me. Being cited by
Perplexity isn't just about traffic,
it's about credibility. When someone
asks perplexity a question, they're
getting answers along with numbered
citations showing exactly where each
piece of information came from. If
you're cited, you're automatically
positioned as a credible source. And
it's not just potential customers who
see these citations. Journalists use
Perplexi to research stories. Bloggers
use it to fact check their content.
Content creators use it to find expert
sources. So, when you get cited, you're
reaching both buyers and amplifiers.
This citation effect compounds over
time. The more you get cited by AI
platforms, the more authoritative you
become in your field. It's creating a
new type of a SEO flywheel. So, here's
how to start building citation
authority. Every piece of content you
create needs to answer a specific
question that your ideal customers are
actually asking. And it needs to be so
well researched and authoritative that
an AI would feel confident citing it.
Don't just hedge with maybe or it
depends. Give clear, confident answers
backed by evidence. That evidence should
come from authoritative sources,
multiple credible articles, or your own
firsthand experience and data, and
explain what that evidence actually
means so the reader understands the so
what behind it.
[Music]
Small blogs are crushing major news
outlets at getting AI citations, and I'm
about to show you the exact blueprint
they're using. Look at this data. Across
Google AI, Chat, GPTM, Perplexi, blogs
dominate citations. We're talking about
small business blogs getting cited more
often than CNN and other major
publications. And when you look
specifically at Perplexity, blogs get
33% of all citations compared to just
news sites at 24%. Here's what I
discovered when I tested this out with
my clients. We took a piece of content
and we structured it using what I called
question, answer evidence format. Within
two weeks, that single piece was being
cited by Perplexity. This completely
flips everything we knew about
authority. AI platforms don't care about
your domain authority. They care about
how useful and structured your content
is. So, here's your fivestep blueprint.
First, use the question answer evidence
structure. Turn every major section into
a specific question your customers ask.
Then, give a direct answer followed by
supporting data. Second, make everything
scannable. Use clear headings, numbered
lists, FAQ sections so AI can easily
pull quotes from your content. Third,
create your own data whenever possible.
Survey your customers, compile industry
stats, and use your own analysis. My
team and I at NP Digital are literally
publishing a new study every single day.
And guess what? We're getting cited
constantly because AI loves our original
resource. And it doesn't have to cost a
lot. You can do it by running a survey
to your website audience or even your
social media audience. Fourth, write
like people talk. Use conversational
language that mirrors how people
actually speak. For example, instead of
email marketing best practices, write,
"What's the best way to set up email
automation for my online store?" And
fifth, show up where your audience hangs
out. Answer questions on Reddit and
Quora. Respond to reviews and engage in
discussions. perplexity notices when
you're being helpful in real
conversations. The beautiful thing is
this works across every AI platform
because they're all moving towards the
same citationbased model. Now, before I
show you the key part of the strategy
that puts it all together, let me
quickly mention something. If you're
watching this and thinking, "Okay, this
sounds great, but I don't have the time
to figure this all out myself." I get
it. There's actually a lot more depth
and nuance to this than what I can cover
in just one video. My agency specializes
in LLM optimization or AI SEO or GEO,
whatever you want to call it. And that
pretty much means that we specialize in
getting your businesses found and
recommended by AI tools like Perplexity,
Chad GPT, and Google's AI search. We
develop proprietary methods for content
structuring, citation building, and
authority development that frankly most
agencies don't even know exists yet. You
can save months of trial and error and
just hire us to implement this for you.
Just go to npdigital.com and we'll show
you exactly how we can get you the
results. All right, now back to the key
part of this strategy that makes it all
work together.
Instead of optimizing for traffic, I
started optimizing for buyer intent and
everything changed. Last year, I had two
pieces of content performing very
differently. The first one was getting
roughly 10,000 visitors a month from
Google, but those visitors were spending
30 seconds on the page and bouncing.
Zero conversions. The second piece was
sending a bit less than 400 visitors a
month, mostly from AI platforms like
Perplexity and Chat GBT. But here's the
crazy part. Those 400 or so visitors
generated more leads and sales than the
10,000 plus from Google. Perplexity
users are self- selecting for higher
buyer intent and high influence. These
are business decision makers with
budgets, but also journalists and
content creators who shape industry
conversations. So when you get cited,
you're hitting a double multiplier
effect. You're reaching people who are
ready to buy and people who are ready to
amplify your message. Stop creating
content for people who might be
interested in someday. Start creating
content for people who are ready to buy
right now and are ready to share right
now. Write for specific scenarios and
use cases. Include quotable stats and
expert insights that content creators
can reference. Because when you optimize
for buyer intent plus amplification
potential, you get fewer visitors, but
those visitors are either going to
become customers or become megaphones
for your brand. Look, if you've ever
felt like you've missed the boat on SEO
traffic, like Google got too
competitive, too expensive, or too hard
to crack, then this AI search revolution
is an incredible opportunity for you.
We're not just waiting on Google
anymore. Just like how the average
person uses 6.6 six social networks per
month according to Sprout Social. People
are using perplexity, chat, GPT, Claude,
Copilot, and dozens of AI platforms to
find information and that's creating
plenty of new opportunities for people
who understand how to optimize for this
new world. The early days of any
platform are always the best time to get
in. And right now, we're in the early
days of AI search. If you want to learn
how to optimize for AI search across all
these platforms, watch this video next
and I'll show you the complete strategy
of what works everywhere. And if you
just need help for someone to do it all
for you, check out npdigital.com.